In the first lecture, I introduced
the basics of Schrodinger formulation of
quantum mechanics, including the key
notion of the wave function.
This is the most commonly used
formulation of quantum theory and
we're going to use it
throughout the course.
We're going to discuss in great detail the
interpretation of the wave function and
proper use of Schrodinger equation.
But today, I would like to give you an
idea about an alternative formulation of
quantum theory,
using so-called Feynman path integral.
Which, in my opinion, is a very beautiful
formulation of quantum mechanics and
used to Feynman.
I should mention that this material
is almost never taught at least at
the undergraduate level.
And when it is taught,
it's usually near the end of the course.
But today,
I will experiment a little bit with this
material and will introduce a try to way.
And one of the goals here is for
me to tell you that what you read in
regular textbooks and actually here
in this course, is just one way
to think about quantum physics.
The most commonly accepted way
to describe quantum mechanics.
But there are many other ways actually,
some of them don't even include
the notion of a wave function and you
should be aware their existence at least.
And keep an open mind here and actually
in general whenever you started signs.
The derivation that I'm going to present
later in this segment follows very closely
this paper by Richard Feynman.
Well, a part of the paper, the paper is
much more detailed written back in 1948.
And this paper is a typical Feynaman,
so if you read the abstract,
the first sentence of the abstract
says non-relativistic quantum
mechanics is formulated
here in a different way.
So he suggested the completely new
way to think about things here.
Now, I should mention that well,
notice the date 1948.
So this time was actually
very difficult time for
Feynman, so there is this book
which I would recommend for
you to take a look, if you're
interested in Feynman as a person.
It's called Perfectly Reasonable
Deviations from the Beaten Track.
So this book is real,
there's no shortage of book about Feynman.
But this book is pretty much
a collection of plagiarism that Feynman
throughout his life.
And when you read this book,
when you read these last years going
back to this period, to the 40s.
You see that it was a very,
very painful time for
Feynman because his wife Arlene died.
The high school sweetheart whom he
married died in 1945,
in June of 1945 of tuberculosis.
It was not easy for him
to deal with this, so the last resort
is to bury this feeling very closely.
And despite this difficult time and maybe
the suffering and sort of inspiration,
he came up with a number
of very influential,
very original, very unusual ideas.
And one of those ideas is this
going back to the actual physics.
So I'm going to present an iteration but,
as I mentioned, this derivation
is rarely introduced in the very
beginning of quantum mechanics course.
And one of the reasons here,
of course, is a technical involved.
And furthermore, the end result of
this calculation is actually a new
mathematical object that hadn't even
existed before Feyman wrote it.
And did, mathematicians have
been arguing to this day about
its precise meaning, so there is
some technical issues which exists.
But, for those of you who are not real
interested in these technicalities, again,
I just would like to briefly tell you are
the main ideas without going into math.
So, let us consider a quantum particle
localized at the initial moment of time to
equal zero in the vicinity of
a certain initial point r sub i.
And let's ask the question of
what is the probability for
this particle to reach a final point,
r sub f in a time, t.
So if it were a classical particle,
it would have followed a unique,
well defined classical trajectory,
let's say if we're a free particle,
it would have been just a straight
line connecting two points.
But in general,
it would have been a solution or
the second mutant equation,
or the equations.
But it would have been
a unique classical trajectory.
So the main result of
Feynman in this paper,
is that in quantum mechanics, the particle
goes over all possible trajectories
at the same time in some sense.
So at full is at the classical trajectory,
this trajectory,
any trajectory you can imagine and
there is a weight,
a complex weight associated with the each
trajectory which is the exponential
of i times classic collection
divided by the flying.
So a classical action here, we're
going to discuss it in more detail later.
But just to remind you, the classical
action is an integral from zero to t or
the which is the kinetic energy,
basically nb squared over two,
minus the potential energy times dt.
So this, in classical physics,
the minimum of this
action give rise to the mutant equations
and to classical equations of motion.
In quantum mechanics,
there is no principle of least action,
as Feynman showed, but
all actions are allowed and
all of them give rise to some
terms in quantum theory.
Now going back to the probability of going
from the initial point to the final point,
in some sense this probability
can be represented as the sum
over the absolute values squared of
the sum, of all possible classical actions
over all paths that I
labeled here by an index l.
And this sum itself is essentially
symbolically represents what we're
going to see as a path integral, which
will come out of the theorem naturally.
And it's really a very remarkable result.
Now it turns out that again, so the
mathematical part of it is quite subtle,
but one can actually solve some
problems just by using this sort
of cartoon picture of
what a path integral is.
And I'm going to give you an example such
as solution, so even if you don't follow
very closely and carefully the derivation
of the mathematical formulas,
you can still follow the main
qualitative results later on.